hello everybody this is Evan Abrams and
the miss after effects tutorial we're
actually going to take a step back from
the program and talk about the career of
motion graphic design I get a lot of
questions on this topic like what do you
do for a job and is that really a job
how can I have that job and so on
these are questions I get on Facebook
and Twitter and across the dinner table
of Thanksgiving a lot of judgment at
Thanksgiving there are three main ways
that you get into this career you are
either an employee at something like a
production company where you work for a
boss you work on projects or you are a
freelancer where you work for yourself
but really you work for clients or you
create kind of content or products or
something for other people to use and by
where you don't really interact with
people it's up on a very abstract basis
no matter which of these 3 streams
you're into there are a lot of things
that go into making a successful career
and you need certainly the technical
skills of using After Effects using
cinema 4d all these products but you
also need soft skills you're going to
need to work with others that
interpersonal business communication
skills all that stuff is important and
you really need to have a diversity of
these things if you're really going to
be successful keep saying skills because
this little talk is brought to us by a
skill share a site where a lot of
experts teach excellent courses on a
variety of things and if you use the
promo code ICI Abrams in 99 you will
enjoy three months of Skillshare miss
$0.99
so the first and perhaps most
traditional form of having a job in
motion graphics is to be an employee
somewhere this means being an employee
of an agency or a production company a
place where you'll be working with a
team and under a hierarchy of directors
and producers and of course this comes
with great things like dental benefits
pay you're getting a salaried job where
you come in for time and then you're
paid for that time so you kind of know
where your money's coming from which is
pretty great and very comfortable way to
live and there's kind of vertical
advancement so you might start as an
editor and as an art director and
eventually run the place who knows
that's the dream right but to get into
these places very challenging
the job market is not so great there are
very few jobs and jobs there are are
very competitive to going up against
everyone who's just graduating also up
against people who have just moved
transitioning from other parts of the
industry so can be very dicey and you
really want to make yourself stand out
so you're going to want to be able to
show off a portfolio you want to show
off a real you want to have a pretty
nice CV or resume that you can send
around which is very difficult when
you're just getting into things so big
tip is to make sure that you're showing
a variety of real things that you've
done and you're going to want to build
up a body of work maybe you don't have
client work to show off well you're
going to want to have some fairly good
personal pieces and hopefully over the
course of maybe a college program you've
built those up or you've been going
through a lot of self-directed things
and you've created interesting projects
but the big thing I'll say is you want
to show off a variety of skills you want
to show off you can do 3d you can do
tracking can do some illustration you
can be the Swiss Army knife or these
people want to slot into their team I'm
seeing more and more that production
companies are looking for people who can
do everything we want one person who can
solve all these problems that's the big
thing they want someone who will solve
the problems they have so they don't
have to get another specialist in and
well you might not have those skills
right now I can tell you there are a lot
of great places to go learn them such
places as skill share we can learn
skills for three months for just 99
cents using the promo code you see a
room is 99 good plug that's really good
now the second way we talked about was
freelancing this is where you're not
really an employee of a place but you do
work for somebody we're always working
for a client of some kind if you're a
freelancer so those clients might be
production companies and agencies and
large companies but you don't have the
same security but you're also freer to
set your own hours work wherever you
like I work from home it's a pretty
great deal you might do that too but you
do have to provide your own hardware
your own software and you're basically
your own business so beyond having the
technical side of things you really need
to know how to promote and market
yourself you need to know how to
negotiate contracts you need to provide
excellent customer service so customers
come back to you you need a lot more of
those business skills and those soft
skills too
really make a go of being a freelancer
so you're going to want to run
advertising campaigns you're going to
want to maintain social media and it's
really important to have these things
going so that people can find you you're
not always hunting for a client hunting
and prospecting for clients is a lot of
hours and it's a lot of work and I'll
get paid for it until you actually win
some business I will say a caveat here
though is that I'm not a huge proponent
of going to contest sites and
marketplaces for these things in the
early days that can help build up a
portfolio of real work but really
devalues your time so I don't always
recommend it there's some interesting
stuff out there certainly and some
people are posting jobs but if you have
to undercut your hours that is not worth
it but the big way to make a go is to
really have a strong body of work and to
really be active and engaged in the
community if you want to be a freelancer
working for production companies let
them know who you are and you're going
to have to do some cold calls and get
your name out there so nothing is really
easy but a lot of people don't have
these sort of business and marketing
skills and that's a good segue to talk
about skill share where you can learn
about such things as email social media
marketing use promo code be say room 299
3 months 99 cents it's great and finally
the third facet the third stream the
third pillar the third metaphor of all
this stuff is making products and
selling them directly to customers or
making content and hoping people watch
it this is stuff you can do self
directed there's no clients there's no
set hours there's no place to go in to
do this you just do it on your own and
you try to make sure that people who
come to it and use it and like it
this requires a high amount of sort of
marketing knowledge knowledge of we're
gonna sell things who are you going to
sell them to and need a high amount of
technical ability to make something with
really utility to your customers and if
I'm saying customers you definitely need
some kind of customer service knowledge
and you might need to build a website
you might need to do a lot of things to
really build a business around that so
it has the same kind of challenges as
being a freelancer but you don't work
with clients per se you also have the
added challenge of trying to stay on top
of trends and keeping your old customers
happy by giving them some
thing that they'll like this could be
lots of things in the motion graphic
space you can be making templates
because you're making fonts you could be
making stock video you could be making
some kind of plugins could be doing
scripting could be doing a lot of things
things that other motion designers need
or that may be video editors need you
need to kind of figure out who your
products are going to what they want to
get from them you might even be making
content content like this channel
sometimes if you don't have all the
pieces you need to make things happen
you need to get some extra skills to
really make a go of it this is the third
plug to check out skill share so skill
share promo code ec aims 99 you will
enjoy three months of skill share for 99
cents and maybe you'll discover skills
that you can use to create products for
people all over the place
go make some fonts make some hand-drawn
stuff it'll be great you love it and all
of this is to say that career of motion
design is kind of challenging sometimes
but there's also no one way to do it
there's no one way to be there's no
single best way to be a motion graphic
designer or a visual effects artist
I mean VFX you're kind of tied into the
movie industry or production companies
and that kind of thing but that isn't to
say you won't also be dealing with the
challenges of freelancing versus
employment versus making something you
can just pass on to customers so all of
these things in the creative field are
pretty applicable so hopefully this has
been helpful to you guys out there
looking to get a job I know it's tough
out there but if you have any questions
about the stuff that we're talking about
here please let me know in the comments
it's definitely something I want to
answer a few guys and if there's enough
questions we'll probably end up doing
another video to try to cover those
frequently asked career questions kind
of sounds like a nice segment anyway
point is if you have questions asking in
the comments and if you like learning
about After Effects and motion design
please subscribe to this channel that's
what we talked about here it's what we
do what I do 24/7 all day every day
all the year so I like to share that
with you guys and hopefully you enjoy
hearing me talk about it which is great
I love the involvement so like I said
comment subscribe if you just want to
talk about After Effects and motion
Vic's in general hit me up on the
Twitter at ICI Abrams or get involved on
the Facebook page links to all that
stuff is in the description also in the
description you will find a link to
Skillshare sponsor this video again
promo code ICI Abrams 99 99 cents three
months you will love Skillshare and I
say that not only is someone who is
currently sponsored by them but as
someone who learns from there and
teaches on there too there's a lot of
really expert stuff but that's it for me
like I said if you enjoy the stuff
subscribe to the channel thank you so
much for watching and if you subscribe
I'll see you around the internet